hello did you like that little
introduction it starts in the key that
you want to play in and then it goes up
dramatically a couple of keys and then
goes back to the key that you originally
wanted to play in it sounds quite
effective it works with lots of tune we
can try with the wooden heart what was a
Moose's den we're trying for the old
Elvis Presley one like this
there we go it's quite effective it's an
introduction and if you'd like to come
over the keyboard I'll show you exactly
how it's done and what we're doing is
using the first two bars of the tune
that we're going to go into we play the
first two bars in the proper written key
so let's have when the saints in C
now we kick everything up a semitone so
see
C becomes C sharp and the melody and
then we kick it all up again to become D
major
and we play the second part of the tune
saints go marching now d7 we playing the
chord of D which becomes d7 which leaves
onto g7 d7 goes onto g7 g7 takes us back
to C major which is the key we wanted to
start in in the first place so let's put
all three together
you
to g7 and she said that one more time
into the face not what you could do
instead of altering the chord in the
left hand we could just keep a G note I
always think that sound good if you've
got a timpani roll oh I haven't got one
at the moment so we'll do without the
roll but we'll just hold the G note but
you can warm along the G look G to a
like that now play the first part
keeping where it is all to the tune to C
sharp to D
it's just have gone again without
talking roll all the cord roll the notes
rather g28
that's the first couple of bars you can
actually play a couple more bars make it
sort of three or four bars of the first
tomb that you want to play here we're
going to do wooden heart which is rush
East and we're going to try that one we
actually change the court we've got two
chords in here
see to g7 now we're going to kick
everything up a semitone so c-sharp
becomes G sharp 7 which is a flat 7 it's
easy to think so we're going from C
sharp to a flat 7 so let's go from the
beginning now we go
and then finally we complete the tune
with the D major section
which goes to see so let's have that
introduction all the way through without
my talking
and there we go a nice little intro
you
and to play as that let's say let's do a
little bit of cheating we'll set a
little pattern here I'm going to play
that tune misused and I should play that
with one finger I'm gonna set my hand
hard we've done this before way I've set
my hand into a hard pattern so as the
little finger plays the tune all the
white notes are dragged it behind like
this it makes a natural harmony you're
creating 13th of the 11s and all kinds
of strange major seventh chords just by
keeping that almost like a template it's
like a set pattern so now if we
incorporate the introduction thank you
for listening and I wish you happy music